So welcome back, guys, in this section of the course, we will going to start with a new topic altogether.
We will going to learn about big Indian and little Indian machines.
Now, this topic is a very common topic.
If you already have an idea about big Indian and little Indian that there is absolutely no need to invest
time in this section of the cause and please feel free to skip.
Those who are hearing these terms for the first time, please stay with me, this topic is again important
from your point of view in an interview, often you are asked to explain what are big Indian and little
Indian machines and what is the difference between them since it's a common topic.
Therefore, those who are already aware, please feel free to skip this section of the course.
So that's a start.
So Indianness refers to the sequential order in which bytes of the data are stored in the computer's
memory.
So now let us discuss it with the help of an example.
So let me choose some random number.
Right.
So if you convert this number into its equivalent binary number, it's equal in binary number.
Would be this right?
If you don't believe me, just pick up your calculator and try to see the binary representation of this
number.
Now, in your computer program, the moment you write in A is equal to, say, some number X, then
in the computer's memory, the value of this variable eight will be stored in the binary format.
So if this X is this number, then in the computer's memory at the address of the variable A, the value
that is present will be the binary representation of this number.
Now, this entire vegetable on this platform, it is of size four bites and four bite means 32 bits,
right.
How do you choose the data type instead of end as unsigned?
Long than this date or time would have been of size eight bites, which is same as 64 bits.
Right.
So we're going to discuss the Indianness of the machine with respect to the data type int are more precisely
saying unsigned int.
Whatever we discuss with respect to the data type isn't exactly the same logic applies to data type
unsigned long, which is another data type two story integers, in fact, longer integers.
Now, by now, you must have verified that the equal representation of this number into its equivalent
32 bit binary representation.
Is this right?
So you can see that these are actually 32 bits and we already know that Edwards is equal to one byte.
So let us say that these eight, which is byte number three, these Edwards is byte number two, these
Edwards is byte number one and is Edwards is by no P zero.
Right in the computer's memory.
Every byte has an address.
Now, coming to the discussion of Indianness of the machine, the Indianness of the machine decides
in what order these might be to be to be one and B zero will going to be stored in the computer's memory.
So, for example, if this particular binary representation of the number is stored in the computer's
memory in this format, then we say that your machine is a big Indian machine.
And this particular representation of a number is called big Indian representation.
The big Indian representation famously is also termed as network Bitauto, right, so you can see that
this is the most significant bite of the number and this is the least significant bite of the number.
Right.
So in the computer's memory, even the most significant bite of the number is present at the lower address
here.
The lower address is two thousand, for example.
Right.
And as I said that every byte in the computer's memory has an address.
It means that byte number B2 will have an address 2001 and the byte number B1 will have an address 2002
and so on.
So if the most significant bite of a number is saved at a lower address and the least significant bite
of the number is saved at the higher address, then this type of storage or representation of binary
numbers in computer's memory is called Big Indian representation or network Bitauto.
Right.
Now, opposed to this, if the number is stored in the computer's memory, such that least significant
bite is the stored at the lower address and the most significant bite is stored at the higher address
than this particular representation of binary numbers.
And computer's memory is called little Indian representation, or Horst Bitauto.
Right.
So network Bitauto and host byte order are completely opposite to each other.
So this is the difference between big Indian and little Indian machines, and it is one of the most
part questions for interviews.
So be prepared to explain what is big Indian and little Indian representation and what does not work
by daughter and host Bitauto.
And also note that the Indian as soda machine influences the order in which the bites of the number
are stored in the computer's memory.
It do not influences at the best level, but it influences at the bite level.
Right.
You can see that the order of birds is intact, right?
It is the bitts which got rearranged in the computer's memory depending on the independence of the machine.
Right.
So do not get ever confused.
The Indianness affects the byte ordering and not with ordering.